AN ORIGINAL NETFLIX SERIES
My initial interest in The Witcher was
born out of a fortuitous experience
with the video game The Witcher.
Then I heard that Netflix
was going to do a series and…
… I looked for the
opportunity to play Geralt
and when I spoke...
In the first meeting with Lauren,
she mentioned that it was based on books.
I just loved the books
and they are an extraordinary
source of a fantastic story.
Andrzej Sapkowski is the one
who wrote this series of books.
Talking to him about them is fascinating.
He traveled all over the
world, as a street vendor,
and started by writing the original
short story for The Witcher,
which he later presented to
a magazine and was published,
but it was never your intention
for this to get where it did.
There is something unique about the way
Andrzej Sapkowski wrote The Witcher.
It is a tough world, but it is related,
with some extraordinary characters.
It was necessary to remember
to the south who is the queen.
And what excited me the most
when I introduced it to Netflix…
What did you want?
… Went to plant the seeds for the meeting
between Geralt, Ciri and Yennefer.
Find Rivia's Geralt.
It took some time.
I created several versions
and I literally had one of those
"Aha!" moments in the shower.
"I will be able to tell these
three stories at the same time"
without being too confused?
It is been interesting,
because I think
that the current television
audience is very astute.
And as writers and creators,
we have that going for us.
So there are a lot of leaps in time,
but I think it’s an exciting trip
for fans and... you know,
even for those who didn't know The Witcher.
The most interesting thing
is to dive into these stories
and one of the first things I did
when they approved The Witcher
went to buy a plane ticket to
Poland, because I wanted to know
why the series of books was
so important for the country
and how it reflected people's spirit.
It was important for me to
develop the series as a whole.
THE HISTORY IN THE LINES
The Witcher is a big part of
me, I think.
The Witcher has become part of my...
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER
… Brain, body and
mind for a long time.
But for the rest of the world,
The Witcher is a fantastic story,
a fantastic character,
a fantastic world.
For the kingdom and the glory.
Tomek Baginski,
one of our Polish producers,
ART DIRECTOR
is well versed in the books
and culture of The Witcher
and there are certain things
which are not necessarily
explained in the guidelines.
In such cases,
we consult with Tomek and his team,
to ensure fidelity to
the original material.
It is a big part of Poland's
pop culture history,
which is also very important,
I think, and...
it is a game, a book,
a television series, it is many things.
It is very difficult to circumscribe
The Witcher to a simple explanation.
And I hope that we can
introduce this world to…
… A much wider audience.
I like to say that in this series,
we can see the story that goes
between the lines of the books.
We want to make a faithful
representation of the books
and we try to respect that material,
but books also omit many things.
That wing ْ de is
mine, give it back to me!
Many new ideas came out
of the screenwriters room,
some of them very risky,
but all brilliant.
In the screenplay room of The Witcher…
SCREENPLAY
- EPIS DIO 5
… We got together and
discussed ideas for a while,
until we have a clear idea of ​​what
we are going to do this season.
After doing this,
we focus on individual episodes
and we are going to get material from the
books. We thought, "What parts of the books"
do we want to include this season?
After we decide that,
Lauren tells us to write
our guide individually
and we have some arcs that go
from one episode to another
that we continue to
discuss to make sure
that we are always giving new
information to the viewer.
When they entrust us
with a guide, it is…
It is very exciting, we think:
"I will deal with this story, great!"
SCREENPLAY
- EPIS DIO 4
When the Law of Surprise came to
me, some said:
"I am glad I didn't get that one!"
Because it is difficult to explain.
Request payment with the Law of Surprise
it is as old as humanity itself.
- Do not give me sermons, Eist.
- It is a fair bet.
Whose reward can be so much…
… Plentiful harvest, a puppy or…
… A surprised child.
Try to explain it
in a guide, in a way that does
not cause the actor to look at us
and give us a snap?
It was difficult, but essentially, this is it.
The Law of Surprise, in
short, is to take something
from the other person...
... which is a surprise.
When they return to that house,
the first thing they find whose
owner didn’t know they owned the
before they left, that is it.
Fuck it.
Yes, there are many different ideas
and many different perspectives...
SCREENPLAY
- EPIS DIO 3
... which is important,
because in the last analysis...
… It is about all these different
groups, like elves, gnomes, dwarfs
and their perspectives on the world.
So, having the freedom to
represent that kind of…
… Diversity is very
useful to tell the story.
What is great about this and
what we did with the story
is that we focus on humanity
and all human conflicts.
One of the most
interesting things for me
it is the women in the books.
They are very strong women,
those around Geralt, the protagonist.
So I asked Andrzej:
"For books written in the 1980s",
it is surprising that
women are so strong.
And he says to me: "You never
knew my mother, did you?"
He wanted to say that the
nation was so devastated by war,
scene of so many conflicts,
who lost many of their men
in these conflicts and women have
become the pillars of communities,
even in the workplace,
not just at home.
That was the spirit that
Andrzej brought to these books.
These characters are survivors.
When I went to do the
audition… There were two scenes
that had been written for the hearing,
and one of them was between her
and Geralt and she was quite
combative and stubborn.
And then, in the other scene, she had...
I was trying to convince
someone not to stay and die
and she was...
A showed her heart,
and a more loving side.
So, I liked the fact that
it shows these two faces,
in the audition scenes,
instead of just being, like:
"She is going to be
a cool and tough girl",
which is fantastic, but it also showed
another, gentler, softer force.
It shouldn't have been an easy
task to find an actress who could
embody a character like Ciri,
who is so rooted in folklore
and such an important character.
Ciri has a lot to offer.
Ciri is this whole world. It is the
key to almost all the characters.
It is the element that unites everyone.
Whenever it appears on the screen,
there is something truly special about it.
There is something magical in her eyes...
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER
... and I think it has
to do with the character,
you know, Ciri has that thing inside her
and she is young, still
not sure what it is
and I think Freya did a fantastic
job of playing the character.
What we did was pick up the books
and look for all the parts
where Andrzej spoke about
the past of these characters
and from all of that,
we will create a new story
for Ciri and Yennefer,
to thoroughly investigate its origins,
because, for me, it is necessary to
find the characters, to understand them
and then see how they
change when they meet.
It is the most exciting part.
Before we met,
the days were calm...
… And busy nights.  But now…
… you are important to me.
We have a rough idea, in the room,
of how it will
be and we discuss it.
"These people are going this
way, this way there..."
And then we have the joy
of going home to write,
alone, out of the room
and think about cool shit
and monsters, type
"This is fantastic,
I can invent monsters!"
Who doesn't want to do this?
MONSTERS AND MONEY
The world of monsters and men
in The Witcher…
These worlds intermingle is very difficult…
… Draw a clear line and
say, "Okay,
humans are here and here the
world of monsters begins "
The continent we know
was inhabited by elves.
And when the Conjunction
of the Spheres took place,
it opened the door to
monsters, many monsters.
One of the most interesting
things about how these…
… Species interact is…
... that some do not belong to
this place we call the Continent,
and, in fact, of all the monsters
that populate the Continent,
some are made of wool,
others are created by magic
and others,
despite being monsters,
or being considered monsters,
come from a different site or
from several different sites
and them…
… Probably see humanity
as monsters, as we see them.
This is all due to something called
the "Conjunction of the Spheres".
Basically, it is what it sounds like.
Is a series of different dimensions
that collide with each other
and change the world as we know it.
In fact, it is a refugee situation.
All these creatures and beings from
another universe came to a stop
to this continent,
which is not theirs, as refugees,
and humans were the only ones
sufficiently barbaric and bellicose,
in addition to taking advantage
of the magic of the Ancient Races,
to take the Continent and drive
the elves out of their land.
Strangely enough,
all the inhabitants of this
world are visitors in this world.
Something existed here before.
We do not know the details,
but monsters, dwarves and humans
they all arrived later.
Given that we are going to create this
world from a holistic perspective,
I took on the design of
the creature concepts
and, for a large number of
creatures, I had the opportunity
to do the initial design of
some, which later passed
or the prosthesis team,
to create physical creatures,
or the visual effects team,
to create the three-dimensional models
of the animated versions.
And many of the
creatures we work on…
CREATOR OF PR ES TESES
… Resulted from a combined effort
with the visual effects
department, because,
sometimes the creature was
totally designed by the
visual effects department,
with certain parts built by
us to allow physical contact
with the actors
and sometimes the creature
was totally built physically.
One of the most interesting
things in creating creatures
went to work with
Tomek Baginski and talk
about mythology and Slavic fairy
tales and include certain elements
in the creatures that are
faithful to these stories.
We talk a lot about monsters
in the world of The Witcher,
but in fact, in the original books,
the wizard doesn’t fight
monsters that often,
because this is a moment in
the history of this world
where the monsters are
forced to abandon natural
habitats by people,
and, at some point,
we realized that maybe it is the monsters
in need of protection.
THE LIMITS OF THE WORLD
The stories unfold in a place
called the "Continent",
with a capital letter, "Continent".
It is an extensive world, which we will
continue to explore throughout the series.
I think the most intriguing thing about
this project is the creation of the world.
This was a great opportunity
to create an entire environment from scratch.
And for an art director,
this is golden dust.
We want to give the
Continent a more global look.
In many ways, the world of The
Witcher is very much based in Europe
and we feel,
and we discussed it right from the
start, which we want to build
this world with influences
from many other places.
Many other cultural references.
We draw ideas from Japanese,
Indian architecture
and the Middle East,
to give the continent
a sense of scale.
In order not to feel that everything
is happening in one region.
So, let's play a little
with architectural realities.
In architecture, say, by Aretuza,
for example, the facade of the
island of Thanedd is quite high.
And the question arises, like:
"Wow, where did this come from?
How did you get it?
"Because we want this juxtaposition"
with the most humane
architecture, like: "Very well",
we understand how to build a castle.
But I think that mixing these
two things is very important.
It takes place in a kind of
medieval period, but that said...
COSTUME DESIGNER
… The influences that I decided
to use are genetic of all periods.
So, I chose that and
a lot of haute couture
and another idea
I used was to use
tissue manipulation,
which, at this moment,
is a relevant technique in haute couture,
but that has been used throughout history,
and that basically involves
pleats, drapes,
pleats, different ways to
transform plain to textured fabric
without adding embellishments
or any type of addition.
So, create an architectural form
and creates a visually
interesting surface for the suit.
As for the world,
including the costumes and sets,
it seems to me a
world that has been found.
Not a make-believe
or invented world.
It looks like we’ll find him,
and for a story like The Witcher,
this is very important,
because it gives it realism.
One of the major issues
discussed was that
this is not a terrestrial story.
The Continent is the Continent
and it has its own rules.
It has the Ancient Races and it has
a history and there are monoliths
and, there are… In
a way, we will withdraw
layers, like an onion,
right from the first season
and there are many more layers ahead.
We want to be able to hint at
it, to give a glimpse
of what might be revealed
as we go through the story.
It is a world
of magic and, if so...
... there are no limits.
We can do anything.
Got it!
But this also implies many
conflicts and dangers.
It is a very black world
and violent.
THE DRIVING CHAOS
Where we focus on this,
in practical terms, is:
"How does magic work in our series?"
Magic is very interesting.
We call it "chaos".
And the coolest scene of
playing with chaos is that
we always say that it
is a give and take.
We don’t want to do a series
where the characters can use magic
to get in or out of any complicated
situation. There is no drama in that.
I am doing it!
Your hand!
Chaos is everywhere.
We live in a world where there
can be and there is immense chaos,
and where there are
people who have the capacity
to control chaos
and make it positive
or contain it in a way that
is no longer dangerous.
The magic is...
Each person uses it differently,
depending on how you inherited it
and the way you channel it.
There is a certain discipline and…
… Not everyone succeeds.
When we start shooting,
"and the guide said, like ...
and Mousesack makes a wall appear."
Or something like that and, you
know, I am there with the director
and Lauren Hissrich,
the showrunner, and I say, "Okay,
I think this is how Mousesack should...
… Concentrate the energy in the room
and... What do you think?
So, we tried several things.
It has to be something supernatural
and it must come from something unique
that we feel it
provides powerful energy
and, after all, you know,
everything is calm and,
out of chaos, control arises.
Initially, at the hearing...
I knew almost nothing
about Yennefer.
Just the power she had in
the scene that I was playing,
and…
... then, I studied the
character, obviously, and...
... I got to know her through books.
And I was curious to know why
she presented herself that way
and wanted to find
out what her fight was.
And I think, for any actor,
the arc through which it passes
it is an incredible challenge.
And I love to find out more about
it, the more I read
and more I interpret it, I suppose.
Anya brought a depth to the role
of Yennefer that is extraordinary.
I think that both fans and beginners
will fall in love with her.
It was very important to have a
character, or an actress,
that managed to go through the
transformation that was necessary,
who looked very young but who
managed, physically,
to embody someone with
Yennefer’s shortcomings,
and then become an
incredibly powerful figure.
But also a figure that is broken,
that is desperately divided.
So, we need someone
with talent for all this
and Anya has it,
to the carts.
UNITED BY DESTINATION
At the center of our series are
Geralt, Yennefer and Ciri.
And what is fun in the first season
is that the three are never in
the same place at the same time.
They are in a kind of
crash course on each other.
I think the parallel timelines
are a very interesting
mechanism for telling the story
and I think the most interesting
thing about these parallel lines
is that when we start to see it,
we see it from a perspective,
and at some point,
when we realize that the stories converge,
I think it’s very interesting
to go back and review,
looking for times when
someone looks at someone else
and we see it from a completely
different perspective.
What is great about Destiny
is that it is an end
that results from the choices we make.
And this is how we see the first
season, as a series of choices
that take the characters in
the direction of the others.
And I think what Lauren and
her team wrote very well
it was characters that made sense,
that look like people like you or me,
who are normal people
in a fantasy world,
and I think that’s why the
series will be so strong,
because we empathize with them,
because we understand them.
Everyone likes to see each other
in the stories, do not they?
That is why we watch television.
That is why we read books,
go to the movies or play video games.
We want to see how we are represented.
I think, looking at a world like this,
it is about finding the met
for, like, adolescence,
which is Ciri's journey in some cases,
is, like: "My God!
"I have all this magic power and I don’t
know what’s going on with my body".
This is adolescence for many
people, men or women,
And it’s about finding these touch
stones, where the fantastic
is rooted in something that
everyone identifies with
and have already experienced
it in your own life.
Geralt was also an orphan as a child,
So, I think it’s a
very transversal theme,
people… being together,
having people around
who like them and I think that’s
what they’re all looking for.
What I like best about our
adaptation and what we are doing
is that it is very centered
on emotions and relationships.
I think it is just beautiful.
And all these things are in the books
and they are very important in the books
but I think we’re giving
them even more attention
and bringing them to a different level.
One of the great elements of this story,
that Lauren and the incredible scriptwriters
kept, which I think is fantastic,
because I think it’s a very important
part of this world, it’s the humor,
There can be humor at times
amid destruction and darkness.
Some humor always comes up.
What I love about what Henry
brought to the character,
and, in the end, that the screenwriters
brought to the whole work...
It is almost… You can say it's
modern, but you can also say
which is timeless humor.
Why are you dressed like
a sad silk merchant?
And also the way
Henry does humor,
shows his mood,
because he has an easy laugh
and it is really fun.
Everyone loves a white knight,
but a white knight with a humor
dry and slightly eccentric
it is more pleasant
to see and to interpret.
I saw Henry and Joey doing some scenes.
And I think there’s a
little… I always say this,
that there is a relationship
like Shrek's with Donkey.
Come on, Geralt, tell me sincerely.
What do you think of my voice?
It is like ordering a pie and
finding out it has no filling.
I remember receiving the email,
and panic, because I realized
how fantastic Jaskier's role was.
My sister at that time asked:
"How are you, what is going on?
There is something different about you".
And I said, "Yeah".
Read about this character.
And her response was, "Joey",
is this a dream that you are just having?
Because this is so perfect.
You have an incredible neck.
Like a… sensual goose.
And from,
during the hearing process,
and getting the role,
everything was incredibly exciting,
but strangely normal.
This was supposed to happen.
Every day has been an exploration
of that natural feeling,
to feel at home and to find
and create a new family.
Run, Geralt!  Heavens!
Geralt!
I had to get him out of the country.
I want what is due to me.
Throw a coin at your
Warlock Valley of Abundance
This song...
… Was written by our
composers, Sonya and Giona…
… Who made several different versions.
Eventually, we realized that...
… The song has a folk quality
that we want to get across
all this land and that…
... remember the folk
songs of ancient times.
It has a certain Celtic flavor
but it is also slightly
"eared" and pop.
It is something fantastic that Jaskier brings
to the Continent, and that the
songwriters bring to the series
it is an exercise in public relations.
He starts to invent this song
and Geralt de Rivia
immediately notices something, and says...
This is not how it happened.
Didn't you have more respect?
Respect does not make history.
And I think he understands... people
in a different way than Geralt's.
He realizes that to make
progress in this world,
sometimes it is necessary
to blur the limits a little.
Throw a coin at your
Warlock Valley of Abundance
There is immense action in the series,
and to reflect the
diversity of the stories...
We had a double coordinator to
supervise the entire season,
Franklin Henson,
who did a phenomenal job
in the constant creation and management
of the action throughout the season,
but to help reflect the diversity
of the different stories,
we will also hire other people
to bring different flavors to the action.
We hire a fight coordinator,
Wolfgang,
who came to help us
with some of the struggles we see
at the beginning of the season.
Everything is impeccable.
It is positive.
The moment when Geralt comes across
with some bandits from Renfri's gang
it is interesting because there
was evidence of what Geralt can do,
but at that time,
we haven’t seen it yet
and here we have a Mexican
impasse, in this city,
where he faces seven villains.
And... cut, thanks.
We are very lucky to
have Henry as our Geralt.
He brings that quiet determination
and, of course, that natural strength,
that he owns.
He does his own stunts,
which is a producer's worst nightmare.
If Geralt is in the
picture, then it is Henry
and maybe maybe ten days of training
to do those fights and it is interesting
because what the doubles team does
is to take advantage of Henry's strengths.
I mean, he is a person of
great size and strength and...
… And it’s very interesting to be
able to use someone’s natural skills,
everything seems much more credible.
It’s about ten days of rehearsals for
a fight that takes two days to film,
and that, on the screen, takes two minutes.
And the idea is to have fantastic scenes
that reflect the diversity of the stories.
And I think it is exciting
to see an entire season
and the action never looks the same.
Everything is very different.
A LOT MORE
The stories of The Witcher touch
everything we experience today.
The consequences of colonialism,
the class disparity,
the rich and the poor,
indigenous cultures to be fucked,
racism, sexism.
The world gone mad.
People with power that they shouldn't have,
people rioting, constant change.
This world is a stormy ocean
and The Witcher is it.
If I had to summarize,
I would say that the theme that
tells me more is, more or less,
the blurring of the
limits of Good and Evil.
And my goal is for people to talk
about it after they see the series.
We try very hard to make
sure that there isn’t exactly
good or bad in our world.
Starting to see the first episode,
the person we think is good,
and looks like the hero
or hero in the story,
in the end, we
may find it very different,
because, suddenly,
we have a different perspective.
But love is one
of the most present themes...
… and…
… Your power to change someone.
Another thing that I find interesting
is that, as we go along, we all learn,
in a way, what is...
… The tone of the series and
who these characters are,
and it’s interesting to continue
to develop that as we go along.
Once again, I find it very exciting to see
the direction the series is going to take.
It is a dream come true.
Is those situations where
we fight for something
so long, that we stop believing it
will happen and suddenly it happens.
Excited?
I am always.
It is a great adventure.
I wanted to introduce the world
to all three at the same time
and allow each character
to blossom completely.
And it is really
fun to follow each one
and see that they need each other.
They really need a family.
Above all,
what role will Geralt,
Ciri and Yennefer play in this continent,
who is at war, and
apparently, because of Ciri?
There is much that is about to unfold.
Stay with us, there's a lot to see.
SEASON 2 IS ALMOST
ARRIVING NETFLIX